### Assembly

Cassava has an estimated genome size of \~772 Mbp. The assembly spans 637.2 Mbp and assembled at the University of California, Berkeley. 

Sequence data were generated from a partially inbred (third-generation self, or S3, of MCOL1505) line called AM560-2, which was developed at the International Center for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT) in Cali, Colombia. Etiolated AM560-2 leaves were collected and high molecular weight (HMW) genomic DNA was extracted into low-melting agarose plugs. HMW DNA was extracted from fresh leaf tissue using the CTAB method. The sequencing was done with PacBio RSII machines using P6-C4 chemistry. Additionally, HMW DNA was extracted from AM560-2 leaves at CIAT and sequenced using PacBio Sequel (v2 chemistry). These combined data totalled 88.8 Gbp of sequence, representing 115× depth of coverage. Lastly, over 389 million Hi-C pairs (254 million non-redundant contacts) were generated from fresh AM560-2 leaf tissue.

Contigs were assembled with Canu v1.6 from raw PacBio SMRT CLR data. Redundant contig sequences were identified by their median depth of coverage and the extent of their sequence overlap assessed by alignment. The shorter redundant sequences were then discarded. Misassembled contigs were broken in JuiceBox using the JuiceBox Assembly Tools (JBAT). Contigs were ordered and oriented into chromosome-scale scaffolds with SSPACE v3 and 3D-DNA using, respectively, 40 kb fosmid-end sequencing reads and the newly-generated Hi-C sequences. The resulting scaffolds were manually curated with JBAT to remedy contig inversion errors and incorrect placements, then to incorporate additional small contigs. Scaffold gap sizes were estimated using custom scripts. Gaps were patched via the local de novo assembly of gap-flanking long reads. Base-level errors were corrected by two rounds of signal-based polishing with Arrow (from SMRT Link Suite v6.0.0.47841), followed by four rounds of Illumina short-read polishing with FreeBayes v1.3.1-17-gaa2ace8 and custom scripts. Evaluated by Merqury v1.0.0-g9917ad8, the polishing achieved an average base-level quality value (QV) of 43.5, or less than one error in 22kb. 

95.7% of the 122.7k cassava ESTs available in NCBI map to the v8 assembly.
