### Assembly
Fonio is a tetraploid species (2n = 4× = 36) with a highly inbreeding reproductive system. To build a D. exilis reference assembly, an accession was chosen from one of the driest regions of fonio cultivation, CM05836 from the Mopti region in Mali. The size of the CM05836 genome was estimated to be 893 Mb/1C by flow cytometry, which is in line with previous reports. The CM05836 genome was sequenced and assembled using deep sequencing of multiple short-read libraries, including Illumina paired-end (321-fold coverage), mate-pair (241-fold coverage) and linked-read (10× Genomics, 84-fold coverage) sequencing. The raw reads were assembled and scaffolded with the software package DeNovoMAGIC3 (NRGene), which has recently been used to assemble various high-quality plant genomes. Integration of Hi-C reads (122-fold coverage) and a Bionano optical map resulted in a chromosome-scale assembly with a total length of 716,471,022 bp, of which ~91.5% (655,723,161 bp) were assembled in 18 pseudomolecules. A total of 60.75 Mb were unanchored. Of 1440 Embryophyta single copy core genes (BUSCO v3.0.2), 96.1% were recovered in the CM05836 assembly, 2.9% were missing, and 1% was fragmented. As no genetic D. exilis map is available, chromosome painting was used to further assess the quality of the CM05836 assembly. Pools of short oligonucleotides covering each one of the 18 pseudomolecules were designed based on the CM05836 assembly, fluorescently labeled, and hybridized to mitotic metaphase chromosome spreads of CM0583626. Each of the 18 libraries specifically hybridized to only one chromosome pair, confirming that the assembly unambiguously distinguished homoeologous chromosomes. Centromeric regions contained a tandem repeat with a 314 bp long unit, which was found in all fonio chromosomes. All the data was also re-assembled with the open-source TRITEX pipeline and the two assemblies showed a high degree of collinearity.

