### Annotation

The genome sequence of Hedin/2 was annotated by the FBGC using RNA sequencing data from nine diverse tissues, resulting in a total of 34,221 protein-coding genes. The predicted Hedin/2 gene models captured 96% of single-copy orthologues conserved in Embryophyta according to the BUSCO metric. Gene density was uniform along the chromosomes (except for the positions of satellite DNA arrays) without the proximal–distal gradient typically observed for grass chromosomes. Meiotic recombination displayed a similar distribution with an average of 27 genes per centimorgan. Thus, despite its large genome, faba bean may be more amenable to genetic mapping than cereals, in which up to one-third of genes are locked in non-recombining pericentric regions. Gene order was highly collinear and syntenic with other legumes. To further validate gene annotation, 262 *Medicago truncatula* genes related to symbiosis with rhizobia or arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi were aligned and found putative orthologues for them all. In addition, using RNA sequencing, verification was done on a large subset of these genes that was responsive to inoculation, as expected.

In contrast to gymnosperms, with similarly gigantic genomes, introns in faba bean genes were not larger than in angiosperms with smaller genomes, but the intergenic space was more expanded. Moreover, the absence of a lineage-specific whole-genome duplication (WGD) or widespread gene family expansion means that the proliferation of repeat elements largely explains why the faba genome is more than seven times larger than that of its close relative common vetch (*Vicia sativa*).

Approximately 79% of the Hedin/2 assembly was annotated as transposon-derived. By far, the largest group is the LTR retrotransposons (RLX), accounting for 63.7% of the genome sequence. Other groups of TEs represent only minor fractions of the genome. Among the RLX, those of the *Gypsy* (RLG) superfamily outnumber *Copia* (RLC) elements by more than 2:1. The *Ogre* family of *Gypsy* elements alone make up almost half (44%) of the genome, confirming its status as a major determinant of genome size in the Fabaceae. The great length of individual elements (up to 35 kb for *Ogre* and 32 kb of *SIRE*, the longest and second-longest elements, respectively), together with their abundance, partially explains the large size of the faba bean genome. In addition, a large and diverse set of satellite repeat families that differ in their monomer sequences and genome abundance accounted for 9.4% of the total assembly length, with the most abundant satellite family *FokI* representing 4% (0.475 Gb). *FokI*, together with several other highly amplified satellites, forms prominent heterochromatic bands on faba bean chromosomes. The TE density was remarkably invariable along all six chromosomes, mirroring gene density and recombination rate, and inverse to the density of satellite arrays.

Repeated sequences were called with the Repeat Detector, which is part of the [Ensembl Genomes repeat feature pipelines](http://plants.ensembl.org/info/genome/annotation/repeat_features.html). Repeats length: 10864459657 - Repeats content: 91.2%
