### Annotation

To facilitate gene prediction, five RNA libraries generated from the tissues for sequencing. Completeness of the resulting assembly was assessed using 1,138,639 454 ESTs. The aim of this analysis was to obtain a measure of completeness of the assembly, rather than a comprehensive examination of gene expression abundance. Briefly, ESTs < 200 bps were removed, along with all duplicate ESTs to avoid bias. The remaining ESTs were placed against the genome using BLAT and the resulting placements were screened for alignments that were ≥90% identity and ≥85% EST coverage. The screened alignments indicate that 98.76% of available expressed gene loci were included in the assembly.

Gene annotation was accomplished using combinatory homology-based searches, ab initio Genome Scan and FgeneSH prediction, and 454-collected ESTs. Specifically, protein sequences from angiosperm plants and the 61,797 EST sequences in *E. salsugineum* were aligned to the scaffolds to determine the potential coding open reading frames (ORFs). Then, the candidate genomic regions extended by 2 kb in each direction from the center of aligned ORFs were submitted to Genome Scan and FgeneSH to predict full-length protein-coding genes. 

Repeats were annotated with the [Ensembl Genomes repeat feature pipeline](plants.ensembl.org/info/genome/annotation/repeat_features.html). There are: 439214 Low complexity (Dust) features, covering 18 Mb (7.2% of the genome); 127716 RepeatMasker features (with the nrTEplants library), covering 58 Mb (24.0% of the genome); 111125 Tandem repeats (TRF) features, covering 11 Mb (4.6% of the genome); Repeat Detector repeats length 95Mb (39.2% of the genome).
